wsl.md, before:

# WSL

## [Install](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install)

- For Windows 10 version 2004 and higher (Build 19041 and higher) or Windows 11, you can simply install via this command:

    ```shell
    wsl install
    ```

   It is better to specify a distribution (`wsl --list --online` to get list of available distributions):

    ```shell
    wsl --install -d Ubuntu-22.04
    ```

- Set default distribution:

    ```shell
    wsl --set-default Ubuntu-22.04
    ```

### Move WSL root filesystem to different drive

See this [link](https://stackoverflow.com/a/51767786/781045) for more details.

1. Export to tar file: `wsl --export Ubuntu-22.04 D:\temp\Ubuntu.tar`

2. Import into target folder: `wsl --import Ubuntu D:\wsl\Ubuntu D:\temp\Ubuntu.tar`

3. Delete old installation: `wsl --unregister Ubuntu-22.04`

4. Edit `/etc/wsl.conf`:

    ```shell
    [user]
    default = <your username>
    ```

## [PowerShell](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/install/install-ubuntu)

Available from the Linux package repository for Microsoft products, <https://packages.microsoft.com>, also known as PMC.

Installing PowerShell from PMC is the preferred method of installation.

```shell
sudo apt-get update

# Install pre-requisite packages.
sudo apt-get install -y wget apt-transport-https software-properties-common

# Get the version of Ubuntu
source /etc/os-release

# Download the Microsoft repository keys
wget -q https://packages.microsoft.com/config/ubuntu/$VERSION_ID/packages-microsoft-prod.deb

# Register the Microsoft repository keys
sudo dpkg -i packages-microsoft-prod.deb

# Delete the the Microsoft repository keys file
rm packages-microsoft-prod.deb

# Update the list of packages after we added packages.microsoft.com
sudo apt-get update

###################################
# Install PowerShell
sudo apt-get install -y powershell

# Start PowerShell
pwsh
```

## [.NET](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/install/linux-ubuntu)

Starting with Ubuntu 22.04, some versions of .NET are available in the Ubuntu package feed.

See [Supported distributions](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/install/linux-ubuntu#supported-distributions) for details on how to install .NET for specific Ubuntu versions.

## VS Code

- See [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/tutorials/wsl-vscode) for steps to configure WSL for use wih VS Code.

## wsl apps

- [wslu](https://wslutiliti.es/wslu/) is a collection of utilities for WSL.

    ```bash
    sudo apt install ubuntu-wsl
    ```

- Check out this repo: [samuelramox/wsl-setup](
<https://github.com/samuelramox/wsl-setup>) for scripts to install apps.

    ```bash
    sudo apt install -y apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl gawk ssh-askpass tree unzip wget zsh
    ```

## Python

```shell
sudo apt install systemd-coredump python3-pip python3.10-venv
```

## [Go](https://www.fosslinux.com/68795/install-go-on-ubuntu.htm)

```shell
sudo apt install aptitude
sudo aptitude -y install golang-go
```

## [asdf](https://asdf-vm.com/guide/getting-started.html)

- Install

    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/asdf-vm/asdf.git ~/.asdf --branch v0.13.1
    ```

- Add the following lines to `.bashrc`:

    ```shell
    . "$HOME/.asdf/asdf.sh"
    . "$HOME/.asdf/completions/asdf.bash"
    ```

### Plugins

- Add plugins:

    ```shell
    asdf plugin add chezmoi
    asdf plugin add delta
    asdf plugin add deno
    asdf plugin add neovim
    asdf plugin add poetry
    asdf plugin add snyk
    asdf plugin add fzf
    ```

- Install latest version:

    ```shell
    asdf install chezmoi latest
    asdf install delta latest
    asdf install deno latest
    asdf install lua-language-server latest
    asdf install neovim latest
    asdf install poetry latest
    asdf install snyk latest
    asdf install fzf latest 
    ```

## oh-my-posh

1. [Install app](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/installation/linux):

    ```shell
    curl -s https://ohmyposh.dev/install.sh | sudo bash -s
    ```

    By default the script will install to `/usr/local/bin` or the existing Oh My Posh executable's installation folder. If you want to install to a different location you can specify it using the `-d` flag:

    ```shell
    curl -s https://ohmyposh.dev/install.sh | sudo bash -s -- -d ~/bin
    ```

2. Download themes:

    ```shell
    ## Download the themes 
    mkdir ~/.poshthemes
    wget https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/releases/latest/download/themes.zip -O ~/.poshthemes/themes.zip
    unzip ~/.poshthemes/themes.zip -d ~/.poshthemes
    chmod u+rw ~/.poshthemes/*.json
    rm ~/.poshthemes/themes.zip
    ```

3. [Fonts](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/installation/fonts)

4. [Set up prompt](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/installation/prompt): Add the following to you `~/.bashrc` and then source it. Replace `{theme}` below with your preferred theme:

```shell
eval "$(oh-my-posh --init --shell bash --config ~/.poshthemes/{theme}.omp.json)"
```

## Lua

- Install language server:

    ```shell
    asdf plugin add lua-language-server
    asdf install lua-language-server latest    
    ```

- Install `luarocks`: `sudo apt install luarocks`.

## git

```bash
sudo apt install git

# For diffs
sudo apt install meld
sudo apt install git-absorb
# Github CLI
sudo apt install gh
```

Add to `~/.bash_profile`:

```bash
eval "$(gh completion -s bash)"
```

## LaTeX

1. Follow [these instructions](https://tug.org/texlive/quickinstall.html) but **make sure** to append `--paper=letter` to `perl ./install-tl --no-interaction`.
2. Run this command to create a few folders inside your home directory: `tlmgr init-usertree`. ([source](https://tex.stackexchange.com/questions/137428/tlmgr-cannot-setup-tlpdb))
3. Add `/usr/local/texlive/2023/texmf-dist/doc/man` to **MANPATH**.
4. Add `/usr/local/texlive/2023/texmf-dist/doc/info` to **INFOPATH**.
5. Add `/usr/local/texlive/2023/bin/x86_64-linux` to your **PATH** for current and future sessions.
6. Install font using user-mode: `tlmgr --usermode install courier`
7. Install `chtex`: `sudo apt install chktex`
8. Run `sudo apt install latexmk` to install `latexmk`.
9. To edit LaTex files using `vimtex` plugin in neovim, the following is needed:     - `sudo apt install zathura zathura-ps`.
     - `pip install neovim-remote`
     - `sudo apt-get install xdotool`
     - See [this](https://www.ejmastnak.com/tutorials/vim-latex/pdf-reader/#a-pdf-reader-on-linuxa) for more info.
     - If you run into issues with viewing PDF, try this :sparkles:: run `sudo loginctl enable-linger <username>` or `sudo systemctl restart user@1000` ([source](https://github.com/microsoft/WSL/issues/8842)).
     - If `xodotool` doesn't work, set this in config for `vimtex.nvim`:

        ```lua
        vim.g.vimtex_view_method = 'zathura_simple'
        ``````

10. Installing updates: see [here](https://tug.org/texlive/doc/tlmgr.html#EXAMPLES).[^1]

[^1]: Still doesn't work due to conflict between system and local `tlmgr` :unamused:


## Misc

```shell
# Java
sudo apt install openjdk-17-jre-headless

# pkgx
curl -fsS https://pkgx.sh | sh

# xq: Not available in Package Manager for Ubuntu 22 😦
# https://github.com/sibprogrammer/xq
curl -sSL https://bit.ly/install-xq | sudo bash

# Installs as fdfind
sudo apt install fd-find
sudo apt install age
sudo apt install shellcheck
sudo apt install cmake
sudo apt install clang-format

# D2
curl -fsSL https://d2lang.com/install.sh | sh -s -- 

sudo apt install golang-docker-credential-helpers

# https://github.com/charmbracelet/gum#installation
sudo mkdir -p /etc/apt/keyrings
curl -fsSL https://repo.charm.sh/apt/gpg.key | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /etc/apt/keyrings/charm.gpg
echo "deb [signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/charm.gpg] https://repo.charm.sh/apt/ * *" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/charm.list
sudo apt update && sudo apt install gum
```

## Useful links

- <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/disk-space#how-to-locate-the-vhdx-file-and-disk-path-for-your-linux-distribution>
- <https://askubuntu.com/questions/1429369/how-to-transfer-ubuntu-on-wsl-from-one-laptop-to-another>
- <https://superuser.com/questions/1566022/how-to-set-default-user-for-manually-installed-wsl-distro>
- <https://serverfault.com/questions/175504/how-do-i-get-the-history-of-apt-get-install-on-ubuntu>
- <https://github.com/dotnet/docs/issues/27559>
- <https://calebschoepp.com/blog/2021/how-to-setup-oh-my-posh-on-ubuntu>
- <https://tex.stackexchange.com/questions/137428/tlmgr-cannot-setup-tlpdb>
- <https://www.reddit.com/r/bashonubuntuonwindows/comments/zu6wk1/comment/j1je4j3/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3>
- <https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-set-an-environment-variable-in-linux>

Commit message:

Move WSL files to new 💻 + visidata

wsl.md, after:

# WSL

## [Install](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install)

- For Windows 10 version 2004 and higher (Build 19041 and higher) or Windows 11, you can simply install via this command:

    ```shell
    wsl install
    ```

   It is better to specify a distribution (`wsl --list --online` to get list of available distributions):

    ```shell
    wsl --install -d Ubuntu-22.04
    ```

- Set default distribution:

    ```shell
    wsl --set-default Ubuntu-22.04
    ```

### Move WSL root filesystem to different drive

See this [link](https://stackoverflow.com/a/51767786/781045) for more details.

1. Export to tar file: `wsl --export Ubuntu-22.04 D:\temp\Ubuntu.tar`

2. Import into target folder: `wsl --import Ubuntu D:\wsl\Ubuntu D:\temp\Ubuntu.tar`

3. Delete old installation: `wsl --unregister Ubuntu-22.04`

4. Edit `/etc/wsl.conf`:

    ```shell
    [user]
    default = <your username>
    ```

### [How can I transfer my WSL files from one machine to another?](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/faq#how-can-i-transfer-my-wsl-files-from-one-machine-to-another-)

1. On machine with WSL distribution, run `wsl --export --vhd <DistributionName> <FileName>`, e.g. `wsl --export --vhd Ubuntu Ubuntu.vhdx`.
1. Copy `.vhdx` file to new machine.
1. On new machine: `wsl --import <InstallLocation> <FileName>`.

## [PowerShell](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/install/install-ubuntu)

Available from the Linux package repository for Microsoft products, <https://packages.microsoft.com>, also known as PMC.

Installing PowerShell from PMC is the preferred method of installation.

```shell
sudo apt-get update

# Install pre-requisite packages.
sudo apt-get install -y wget apt-transport-https software-properties-common

# Get the version of Ubuntu
source /etc/os-release

# Download the Microsoft repository keys
wget -q https://packages.microsoft.com/config/ubuntu/$VERSION_ID/packages-microsoft-prod.deb

# Register the Microsoft repository keys
sudo dpkg -i packages-microsoft-prod.deb

# Delete the the Microsoft repository keys file
rm packages-microsoft-prod.deb

# Update the list of packages after we added packages.microsoft.com
sudo apt-get update

###################################
# Install PowerShell
sudo apt-get install -y powershell

# Start PowerShell
pwsh
```

## [.NET](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/install/linux-ubuntu)

Starting with Ubuntu 22.04, some versions of .NET are available in the Ubuntu package feed.

See [Supported distributions](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/install/linux-ubuntu#supported-distributions) for details on how to install .NET for specific Ubuntu versions.

## VS Code

- See [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/tutorials/wsl-vscode) for steps to configure WSL for use wih VS Code.

## wsl apps

- [wslu](https://wslutiliti.es/wslu/) is a collection of utilities for WSL.

    ```bash
    sudo apt install ubuntu-wsl
    ```

- Check out this repo: [samuelramox/wsl-setup](
<https://github.com/samuelramox/wsl-setup>) for scripts to install apps.

    ```bash
    sudo apt install -y apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl gawk ssh-askpass tree unzip wget zsh
    ```

## Python

```shell
sudo apt install systemd-coredump python3-pip python3.10-venv
```

[Install visidata](https://jsvine.github.io/intro-to-visidata/the-big-picture/installation/
):

```shell
pip install visidata
```

## [Go](https://www.fosslinux.com/68795/install-go-on-ubuntu.htm)

```shell
sudo apt install aptitude
sudo aptitude -y install golang-go
```

## [asdf](https://asdf-vm.com/guide/getting-started.html)

- Install

    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/asdf-vm/asdf.git ~/.asdf --branch v0.13.1
    ```

- Add the following lines to `.bashrc`:

    ```shell
    . "$HOME/.asdf/asdf.sh"
    . "$HOME/.asdf/completions/asdf.bash"
    ```

### Plugins

- Add plugins:

    ```shell
    asdf plugin add chezmoi
    asdf plugin add delta
    asdf plugin add deno
    asdf plugin add neovim
    asdf plugin add poetry
    asdf plugin add snyk
    asdf plugin add fzf
    ```

- Install latest version:

    ```shell
    asdf install chezmoi latest
    asdf install delta latest
    asdf install deno latest
    asdf install lua-language-server latest
    asdf install neovim latest
    asdf install poetry latest
    asdf install snyk latest
    asdf install fzf latest 
    ```

## oh-my-posh

1. [Install app](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/installation/linux):

    ```shell
    curl -s https://ohmyposh.dev/install.sh | sudo bash -s
    ```

    By default the script will install to `/usr/local/bin` or the existing Oh My Posh executable's installation folder. If you want to install to a different location you can specify it using the `-d` flag:

    ```shell
    curl -s https://ohmyposh.dev/install.sh | sudo bash -s -- -d ~/bin
    ```

2. Download themes:

    ```shell
    ## Download the themes 
    mkdir ~/.poshthemes
    wget https://github.com/JanDeDobbeleer/oh-my-posh/releases/latest/download/themes.zip -O ~/.poshthemes/themes.zip
    unzip ~/.poshthemes/themes.zip -d ~/.poshthemes
    chmod u+rw ~/.poshthemes/*.json
    rm ~/.poshthemes/themes.zip
    ```

3. [Fonts](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/installation/fonts)

4. [Set up prompt](https://ohmyposh.dev/docs/installation/prompt): Add the following to you `~/.bashrc` and then source it. Replace `{theme}` below with your preferred theme:

```shell
eval "$(oh-my-posh --init --shell bash --config ~/.poshthemes/{theme}.omp.json)"
```

## Lua

- Install language server:

    ```shell
    asdf plugin add lua-language-server
    asdf install lua-language-server latest    
    ```

- Install `luarocks`: `sudo apt install luarocks`.

## git

```bash
sudo apt install git

# For diffs
sudo apt install meld
sudo apt install git-absorb
# Github CLI
sudo apt install gh
```

Add to `~/.bash_profile`:

```bash
eval "$(gh completion -s bash)"
```

## LaTeX

1. Follow [these instructions](https://tug.org/texlive/quickinstall.html) but **make sure** to append `--paper=letter` to `perl ./install-tl --no-interaction`.
2. Run this command to create a few folders inside your home directory: `tlmgr init-usertree`. ([source](https://tex.stackexchange.com/questions/137428/tlmgr-cannot-setup-tlpdb))
3. Add `/usr/local/texlive/2023/texmf-dist/doc/man` to **MANPATH**.
4. Add `/usr/local/texlive/2023/texmf-dist/doc/info` to **INFOPATH**.
5. Add `/usr/local/texlive/2023/bin/x86_64-linux` to your **PATH** for current and future sessions.
6. Install font using user-mode: `tlmgr --usermode install courier`
7. Install `chtex`: `sudo apt install chktex`
8. Run `sudo apt install latexmk` to install `latexmk`.
9. To edit LaTex files using `vimtex` plugin in neovim, the following is needed:     - `sudo apt install zathura zathura-ps`.
     - `pip install neovim-remote`
     - `sudo apt-get install xdotool`
     - See [this](https://www.ejmastnak.com/tutorials/vim-latex/pdf-reader/#a-pdf-reader-on-linuxa) for more info.
     - If you run into issues with viewing PDF, try this :sparkles:: run `sudo loginctl enable-linger <username>` or `sudo systemctl restart user@1000` ([source](https://github.com/microsoft/WSL/issues/8842)).
     - If `xodotool` doesn't work, set this in config for `vimtex.nvim`:

        ```lua
        vim.g.vimtex_view_method = 'zathura_simple'
        ``````

10. Installing updates: see [here](https://tug.org/texlive/doc/tlmgr.html#EXAMPLES).[^1]

[^1]: Still doesn't work due to conflict between system and local `tlmgr` :unamused:


## Misc

```shell
# Java
sudo apt install openjdk-17-jre-headless

# pkgx
curl -fsS https://pkgx.sh | sh

# xq: Not available in Package Manager for Ubuntu 22 😦
# https://github.com/sibprogrammer/xq
curl -sSL https://bit.ly/install-xq | sudo bash

# Installs as fdfind
sudo apt install fd-find
sudo apt install age
sudo apt install shellcheck
sudo apt install cmake
sudo apt install clang-format

# D2
curl -fsSL https://d2lang.com/install.sh | sh -s -- 

sudo apt install golang-docker-credential-helpers

# https://github.com/charmbracelet/gum#installation
sudo mkdir -p /etc/apt/keyrings
curl -fsSL https://repo.charm.sh/apt/gpg.key | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /etc/apt/keyrings/charm.gpg
echo "deb [signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/charm.gpg] https://repo.charm.sh/apt/ * *" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/charm.list
sudo apt update && sudo apt install gum
```

## Useful links

- <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/disk-space#how-to-locate-the-vhdx-file-and-disk-path-for-your-linux-distribution>
- <https://askubuntu.com/questions/1429369/how-to-transfer-ubuntu-on-wsl-from-one-laptop-to-another>
- <https://superuser.com/questions/1566022/how-to-set-default-user-for-manually-installed-wsl-distro>
- <https://serverfault.com/questions/175504/how-do-i-get-the-history-of-apt-get-install-on-ubuntu>
- <https://github.com/dotnet/docs/issues/27559>
- <https://calebschoepp.com/blog/2021/how-to-setup-oh-my-posh-on-ubuntu>
- <https://tex.stackexchange.com/questions/137428/tlmgr-cannot-setup-tlpdb>
- <https://www.reddit.com/r/bashonubuntuonwindows/comments/zu6wk1/comment/j1je4j3/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web2x&context=3>
- <https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-set-an-environment-variable-in-linux>
